What is it?
I mean it has to be a lot of responsibility to try to give people advice and try
to straighten her life out and show them the,
the flaws and the errors that they're making.
Yeah,
it is.
And you know,
people ask me sometimes they say,
you know,
doc field or problems,
you think problems are as simple as you make them out to be.
And the truth is,
I don't think problems are simple at all.
In fact,
I think problems are really,
most of the time,
pretty complex.
They're pretty layered.
They have a lot of different origins and they're oftentimes Comorbid.
A lot of things exist together.
So I don't think problems are simple at all.
But to solutions are often simple.
Don't you think?
I mean,
it's kind of like the old joke.
You go the doctor and you say,
this hurts.
And he says,
well then don't do that anymore.
It's a lot of times it's very simple in it.
Somebody will have a complex thing that comes from childhood or maybe it's a
drug background or they've had trauma in their life,
but the solution is change your behavior.
I mean stop rewarding bad behavior.
Uh,
choose a different path in life.
Just behave your way to success.
Sometimes the solutions are very simple,
even though the problems are very complex because at some point you have to stop
focus econ.
Why?
And start focusing on what instead of why it happened,
what am I going to do to change it.
So sometimes the solutions are pretty simple,
but implementing those solutions are often very,
it's often very difficult for people to change their lives,
change their patterns.
It is.
And,
and patterns is the key.
Um,
you know,
nobody does anything in pattern if they don't get a pay off.
And if you can identify,
that's why,
that's why insights so important.
That's why I think it's the number one outcome to whether somebody is going to
respond to a talking therapy.
For example,
if somebody can identify what their payoff is,
where they really can figure out,
I'm doing this repeatedly and my payoff is I don't have to work,
or I don't get held accountable for this,
or I'm escaping accountability over here,
or I get attention or sympathy.
Or if they can figure out what their payoff is
and they can then control that,
whether it's for themselves or their kids or whatever.
If you control the currency,
then you can control the behavior.
Mm.
Yeah.
It's,
it just seems that people have a,
they have this comfort in their patterns and even if their patents are self
destructive,
even it's drug abuse or alcoholism or did those,
those,
the comfort in those patterns falling into those patterns,
it seems very compelling to a lot of people.
Yeah.
And pay offs don't necessarily mean that it's a positive payoff.
I mean,
the pay off for taking heroin as you get high,
and so you're high for a while.
That's not a positive payoff,
but it's a payoff.
Right.
And if you,
if you get high and so you don't get a job and you don't take care of your kids,
that's a payoff.
That you're not doing things that you need do,
that you should be accountable for.
It's a pathological payoff,
but is a payoff nonetheless.
And so that does reward you,
even though it's a pathological payoff.
It's a pathological thing.
Uh,
you call it a reward and if you,
but if you can identify that when they say,
look,
I'm,
I'm not doing what I need to do and I need to stop rewarding myself in that way
and hold myself [inaudible] need to be there for my kid.
I tell my kid I'm going to be there every day and I don't show up because I'm
high on drugs,
then you know,
I need to stop doing.
I don't need,
I need to not let myself get away with that and instead require myself to show
up for the kid.
When I say I do say I will,
and then you see what's in the kid's eyes.
You share the experience with them.
Now that becomes your payoff.
So then you'll start showing it for your kid.
Yeah.
How,
how many people take your advice?
How many people just listened and try for a little bit and then bail?
You know,
it's hard to say because I think our,
sometimes our most productive guest are the ones that don't get it because the
mail we get,
they'll say,
oh wow,
that guy didn't get her to that woman.
Didn't get it,
but I saw myself in them and I'll never say that again.
I saw them being such a right fighter or I saw them being so hard headed or so
oppositional and I s I heard them say things I've said and they laughed and
didn't get it.
I got it on.
Never do that again.
So sometimes those that don't get it at all while they're there are the ones
that are the best teaching tools for the millions of people that are home
watching.
Yeah.
That's interesting,
isn't it?
When you watch people fail and you go,
oh,
okay,
I see that in myself.
Yeah,
I just got to not do what that guy do it.
And then also do you see the stubborn pigheadedness that some people have what
they won't listen to advice and you could clearly see how they're ruining their
lives by not being honest.
Yeah.
And sometimes the story that we might have is maybe extreme where you say,
I don't do all six things they're doing,
but I do two of them and they are in sharp relief to me.
So I get that.
I ain't going to do that anymore.
So I mean that's where I think you get a pay off and you know,
people go and find these things on the Internet.
I mean last year,
you know,
we have a channel where we put up,
different clips from divorce shows or parenting shows or whatever.
And we had over 2 billion views,
you know,
last year are people just going and finding that information and looking at it.
So know people are seeking the information out and looking at it beyond the show
itself.
So they must be seeking information and we just don't have a good distribution
system for mental health in America.
So I think they look,
I think they're hungry for it.
They look for it.
Well there's so many people out there that are trying to do better.
They're trying to get their lives in order and you know,
shows like yours and,
and you know,
just advice shows people that are giving out inspiration and knowledge.
It's so,
it's such an important thing for people to,
especially for people that didn't grow up with wise parents or they'd be a good
support system around them.
You know,
I think that that's true.
And I grew up with an alcoholic father and it was a pretty violent home and,
and he was a really bad alcoholic.
And I know having grown up in that,
you wind up with what I call a damage,
personal truth and you feel second class and the problem that kids make.
And uh,
cause I know I did it and,
and I,
and I see others do it is you compare your personal truth,
what you know about yourself and how you really live and what's really going on.
You compare your personal truth to everybody else's social mask because you go
to school and you know,
well I know that last night the windows got kicked out of my house.
I know that the utilities got turned off and I know there was a big fight in my
kitchen last night and the kid sitting next to me,
he's got on a shirt that's all ironed and his face is all bright and clean and
you know,
he looks like he's just got it all together and you compare yourself to that
person,
that kid and you feel like you're second class.
And the problem with that is we generate the results in life we think we
deserve.
So if you think your he is,
do you think you're second class?
You will generate
results that you think a second class person deserves.
So if you don't fix your personal truth,
then you'll spend the rest of your last saying,
well you know those really good results,
those belonged for somebody else.
It's not for me as for somebody else.
And you'll settle for second best and you won't get what you might otherwise
generate for yourself if you don't fix your personal truth.
And so I think a lot of people are struggling looking for a way to kind of get
out of feeling not good about themselves.
And damage,
self esteem,
damage,
self worth,
and they really don't know where to go.
So,
uh,
and that's why I do the show.
I don't look,
I'm not down to the misapprehension that we're doing eight minute cures up
there.
I mean,
come on you,
we're not doing that.
But I think if you can point people in the right direction,
if you can raise their awareness,
you can get them thinking about it.
You can create a narrative where they at least say,
you know,
how do I feel about myself?
I mean,
is there stuff I need to resolve?
what am I saying to myself?
If you can get them thinking about that,
then you know,
maybe you've done something.
Yeah.
You know,
Tony Robbins once said once said,
it's incremental changes over the long haul and the way you have to look at it
as if these two boats are going in a parallel direction and one of them just
shifts five degrees over the course of time,
this boat is going to be in a far different place than the other boat that's
going in the same way.
It was always going.
Yeah.
And the important thing to realize as well is the next year it's going to go by
whether you're doing something about your life or not.
I mean,
we're,
we're sitting here right now at the end of February and the next 10 months are
going to go by whether somebody is working to make change or whether they're
not.
And they may think,
you know,
Oh my God,
I'm so far away and I'll never get her under control or I'm so behind in my
bills or I'm so,
uh,
you know,
just depressed or everything is so out of control.
Well,
you know what,
you make those incremental changes and then you know,
pretty soon in December you go,
Hey,
I'm way better off than I was at the end of February.
So Shit,
you made little changes and they all ended up and if you don't,
by the end of the year,
you're just in deeper.
So every little bit matters.
Yeah.
I,
I tell people to write things down.
I say one of the best ways to get things done is to write things down.
Write down what you're trying to get done.
Write down what you need to get done on a longterm basis and what you need to
get done in a short term basis and write off a checklist.
Force yourself.
Be Accountable.
You know the difference between a dream and a goal is a timeline and
accountability.
Accountability is gigantic.
You got to have somebody it,
whether it's yourself or a friend or somebody that's going to say,
look,
did you do what you said you were going to do by this time?
And if you don't hold your feet to the fire,
because I mean,
just sitting around dreaming some day,
some day I'm going to get a different job.
Some day I'm going to change.
This will someday ain't a day of the week.
You know,
there's Monday,
Tuesday,
Wednesday,
Thursday,
Friday,
Saturday,
Sunday.
Look on your counter some days not on there.
So you gotta say,
okay,
I want to take this small step by here,
this small step by their,
this most hit by there.
And then pretty soon,
you know,
we don't leaps tall buildings in a single bound.
We take it a floor at a time.